the first time I truly traveled alone
was around five years ago I didn't
really know what to expect and how it
would be to face the world equipped with
a small trolley and backpack well it was
one of the greatest experiences I've
ever had so I did it again two years ago
however my too short solo trips are
nothing compared to my sister's who has
been traveling the world alone for one
and a half years now that's why I asked
her for some input to create this video
bringing you eight benefits of traveling
alone want more flexibility when you're
standing at a crossroad there's no one
you need to discuss with which direction
you should go you could take this
literally and metaphorically by the way
there are no other people whose needs
need to be met when it comes to travel
decisions this adds a lot of flexibility
to your travel experience because
there's only one person you have to take
into account you this may seem selfish
but hey you're not bothering anyone
either with your needs and demands
live-and-let-live is the model here too
you'll save time another benefit of
traveling alone is that you don't have
to spend time negotiating and discussing
where and when to go especially if you
travel with a group you often spend
hours talking about where to go next
let alone the time it takes to assemble
the group to wait for everyone to finish
preparing for the day and these
time-consuming conflicts that might
occur when the group fails to agree on
issues related to the journey traveling
alone gives you the luxury to come and
go whenever you want wherever you want
to without wasting time on dealing with
your code travelers three less nagging I
often see friendships and even
relationships between lovers getting
damaged while on vacation when you're
traveling together you suddenly find
yourself in a completely different
setting and you spend much more time
together than you normally do the
negative behaviors of your travel
companions will be more prevalent one of
these behaviors is called nagging which
is the constant or
Rassman of another person to get
something done if you're traveling with
a control freak
this person most likely wants to plan
everything in detail and advance like
the things you'll be doing every day
from morning to evening the hotels
you're sleeping and transportation this
isn't a bad thing
but if you're more like me you also just
want to chill and see where the journey
takes you the constant demands for
security of your travel companion will
come off as nagging and in that case you
might want to consider traveling alone
for less drama nagging can lead to drama
also where people come together there's
often drama as well especially when
there's a mix of men and women will see
that the drama factor of the journey
increases dramatically no pun intended
drama wastes time and energy and I
remember that my family vacations in
Spain the traveling I did with
girlfriends and even my last four-day
trip to London with a group of friends
had a respectable amount of drama in it
traveling together can be great fun but
if you travel alone you'll probably have
less drama and more time to enjoy the
world's beauty 5 you're more open to
strangers when you travel in a couple or
group you'll be surrounded by a privacy
bubble which keeps people on a distance
because they assume that you rather mind
your own business as a travel unit but
when you travel alone you're more
vulnerable and more receptive this is
often picked up by other travelers and
local people and makes it more
attractive for them to approach you when
I traveled alone in Indonesia a couple
of years ago I was approached by
strangers every day which resulted in a
lot of fun and visiting places I would
otherwise never have visited so
traveling alone sets you up to connect
with other people in a broader sense
ironic when you think about it 6 it's
easier to be yourself unapologetically
another benefit is that you're not part
of your fellow travelers expectations
when you travel with people you already
know they have a certain image of you
and expect you to act accordingly this
might hold you back to be yourself
unapologetically in new situations
because you're still tied to the
expectations of others you might have
behavior
and habits of your own that you rarely
show to the outside world these could be
your need for reading a book at solitude
or doing morning rituals like prayer
meditation or smoking a few cigarettes
with a glass of whiskey whatever these
habits are they might evoke resistance
with your code travelers because they
don't match the image they have of you
when you travel alone it's easier to be
yourself unapologetically
because people don't know you anyway to
them you're a clean slate seven more
time for introspection this one doesn't
need much explanation when you travel
alone even if you engage a lot with
other travelers you most likely spend a
good chunk of time by yourself
especially during the nights unless of
course you're so promiscuous that you
have a string of people warming your
sleeping bag every night when you're
alone you have more time to search the
soul and reflect on life the Stokes
encourage you to write a journal every
day traveling alone is a great
opportunity to do this eight overall
more genuine experience personally I
think traveling alone has been a more
genuine experience simply because it's
an interaction between you and the
unfamiliar places you visit when you
travel with other people your attention
is often directed to each other when you
travel on your own your attention is
directed to the world around you my
experience is that my senses pick up way
more when I travel alone ironically the
more I pick up the more I desire to
share this with other people this is an
observation made by Chris McCandless a
famous American adventurer who died
travelling in Alaska and wrote the
following line a few weeks before he
died and a quote happiness is only real
when shared and quote thank you for
watching
[Music]
you